Week 5: Version Control with Git & GitHub

Nico Jaworski

Part 1.2
1. Public SSH keys can be shared with other users and stored on remote 
servers. Public SSH keys end with the .pub extension, indicating public 
use. Private keys are stored on your local computer and do not have a 
public extension. I uploaded a public SSH key to GitHub so that it can 
be accessed by collaborators for future work.
2. ~/.ssh/id_ed25519 was set to 600 because this is the private ssh key. 
This key should only be readable and writable by me and no one else to 
ensure the integrity of the key should something happen with the public 
key.

Part 2.3
3. git add takes any changes you have made to a file and adds them to 
a staging area before committing/pushing them to git. The stageing area 
holds information on what will go in the next commit. So if I edited 3 
file, I can add all 3 of them to the staging area and use the commit 
command once instead of three separate times to push them to git.
4. The 7-character string before each message is called the SHA-1 
checksum of the commit. It is used as a unique identifer of the commit 
and hold the metadata associated with each commit.

Part 3.2
5. git remote add origin allows you to add a new remote git repository. 
Origin is the name or path to the remote repository we are adding.
6. git fetch allows you to "fetch" new work that has been put on the 
repo since you last "fetched" stuff from it. However, it does not merge 
files. So if we edited README.md in git and used git fetch, it would 
pull the file down but not merge it with out local one. git pull 
fetches and merges files pulled from a remote repo.

Part 4.4
7. HEAD refers to the current working branch of the last commit.
8. If I were testing different types of analysis on the same dataset 
I think I would use a branch to ensure that no one analysis messes with 
the other. For example, if I were trying 3 different ways to average GPS 
points, then I think organizing each method into its own branch would be 
useful.

Part 5.1
9. Git is really designed more for smaller files containing scripts 
and documentation and not large datafiles. Large files can cause 
repository bloat which slows the upload/download speed from the repo.
10. .gitignore will recursivly ignore certain file classes, not showing 
them as being untracked becuase we do not want to stage them for commits. 
git rm --cached removed a single file from tracking, but you would have 
to run the command over and over for future commits while using 
.gitignore remembers to always not show designated file types in 
tracking.
